---
layout: post
title: "What you're expected to know after Reading Week"
---
### Git and GitHub: the basics
#### Locally create a Jekyll site from scratch and host it on Github
1. Create a local empty repository (``mkdir nameofthenewfolder``)
2. Move into that repository (`cd nameofthenewfolder`) and initialize Git (i.e. Git version control) (`git init`).
2. Create a new empty repository on GitHub.
3. Add a new empty Jekyll site to the local repository (`jekyll new .`) ([^1])
4. Add and commit the local Git repository (`git add .` + `git commit -m "commit message"`)
5. Add a 'remote origin' to your local Git repo (i.e. the SSH GitHub address):

    ```git remote add origin git@github.com:username/nameofrepo.git```
5. Create a local Git branch called 'main' (`git branch -M main`)
6. Push the commit you made in point 4 to the remote repository on a new remote branch called 'main' (`git push -u origin main`)
7. DONE! Your local repository and your GitHub repository are now connected!

#### Clone an existing Jekyll theme to your machine
1. Fork a Jekyll theme from GitHub (e.g. Jekyll Now) and rename it ([^2])
2. Mac: open your Terminal and change directory to your Desktop. Windows: open a Git Bash on your Desktop.
3. In your forked GitHub repo, go to Code > SSH and copy the address (git@github.com:yourusername/nameofgithubrepo.git)
4. In your Terminal/Git Bash type: 

    ```git clone git@github.com:yourusername/nameofgithubrepo.git```
5. Try adding a file or making small edits, and add, commit and push, to check that everything works as expected.

### Test your Jekyll website
1. Open VS Code. Open Folder (click on your website folder)
2. Terminal > New Terminal
3. jekyll serve
4. Navigate the local server

### Write and publish a blogpost
1. Under the _posts folder in your local website repository, create a new file called 'YYYY-MM-DD-a-title.md'. Add the date in that format (Year, Month, Day).
2. At the top of the file write two lines of Liquid:

    ```
    ---
    layout: post
    title: Your  title
    ---

    ```
3. Just below these lines, write your blog post, test it, and push it to GitHub when you're ready.

### Footnotes
[^1]: The dot means 'in the current directory': I assume you are already in the directory where you want your site to be.

[^2]: You can name it anything you like e.g. 'myawesomeblog' (without .github.io). If so, after renaming it, just go to Settings > GitHub Pages > 'Check it out here!'. Where it says '**Source**. GitHub Pages is currently disabled. Select a source below to enable GitHub Pages for this repository' select 'main'. Your website is going to be automatically called yourusername.github.io/nameofgithubrepo/.